# OOP.python
**I am making this repository to learn and practice Object Oriented Programming in Python Language**

**Where am I learning from?**
[Python OOP](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOkVupluCIjvfzQFgjiSQIccKiC-BJXwi)

**Who is the instructor?**
[JimShapedCoding - Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/jimshapedcoding/)

---
## Video 1

> We will be understanding the concepts of Object Oriented Programming in Python by developing a store management system from scratch.

### What problems does OOP solve?
- You can directly open the code from above, or you can [click here](./Video_1.ipynb).

**In video_1.ipynb**, we can see that all the variables are having prefix for variable description as item1. But for python, those are just variables.
- When we print the types of those variables, we will get the type of the variables with no surprise.
- Please note here, we can also see the keywords 'class' in the output. This implies that the variables that we declared and initiated are nothing but the instances of the class *'str' and 'int'*.
- In python programming language, each data types is an object that has been instantiated earlier by some class. Here, for **'item1'** variable, string type of class is instantiated and for **'item1_price', 'item1_quantity' and 'item1_price_total'** variables, integer type of class was instantiated.
---

### Let's create a class!
```python
class Item:
  pass
item1 = Item()
item1.name = 'Phone'
item1.price = 100
item1.quantity = 5
```

- So, here you can see that we created a class Item which at present doesn't have any attributes or methods as of now. And then we create item1 of type Item (so basically, Item is sort of a new data type we created).
- Then we initialised its attributes with values. Now again when we try to get the type of each object, we will see that the **'item1'** is now of type **'\_\_main\_\_.Item'**

---

### **Now let us create one more instance of Item**
```python
item2 = Item()
item2.name = 'Laptop'
item2.price = 1000
item2.quantity = 3
```

### **Now let us create a method inside the class that will calculate the total price**
> When a function is created inside of a class, it is referred to as "method".

```python
class Item:
  def calculate_total_price(self):
    pass
```
> So what is self? Well, 'self' is nothing but a parameter that is autogenerated and refers to the object itself. That means, in python, when we call a method (please note, talking about method, not function), python automatically passes instance of the class for which the method is called. For example: item1.calculate_total_price() will send item1 as a whole as a parameter to the method. And self is the parameter that catches and holds the object.

> Self is just a name given as a convention. We can always give it some other name like myparameter, etc. But remember: the first parameter will always be of type self which will hold the instance of the calling object. And again, 'self' is a common convention, so please don't mess with this.

```python
item1.calculate_total_price(item1.price, item1.quantity)
```
Now in this code above, *item1* as an object will be passed to *self*, *item1.price* will be sent as *x* and *item1.quantity* will be sent as *y* to the method and it will return **x\*y (item1.price \* item1.quantity)**.

---
## Video 2

> In order to create attributes till now, we need to hard code the attributes like item1.name, item1.price, item1.quantity and similarly for item2. Hence, we need to create something that could help pass all the values directly and need not to hard code the item attributes each time.

### What is a magic methods?
Magic methods in Python are some special methods that start and end with the **double underscores** and not invoked by user but **internally from the class** on a certain action. These are also called *dunder methods*.

To begin with, we will be using:
```python
def __init__(self):
  pass
```
We will declare this function inside the class. This will initiate the method \_\_init\_\_() everytime we invoke an instance of the class.

We can also pass some other parameters and avoid hardcoding the attributes each time. For example:
```python
class Item:
  def __init__(self, name):
    print(f"An instance created: {name}")
```
The above code will generate the output as:
[Output 1](./img/1.png)
